R U Z E T T E V A L E R I E G O
D A T A S P E C I A L I S T , D A T A E N G I N E E R

P R O F I L E
Results-driven Data Analyst with 10 years of analytics experience and 2+ years in data engineering. Strong expertise in SQL, Power BI, AWS Athena, and BI platforms, with hands-on experience in dashboard development, data governance, metadata management, data profiling, and data quality assurance. Skilled in validating business logic, optimizing queries, and translating complex data into actionable insights that
support strategic decision-making.

C O N T A C T
09178050936

Ruzettego@yahoo.com

W O R K E X P E R I E N C E
Data Analyst
ThakralOne, Inc.
Project: Procurement, Finance, and Wholesale Analytics




November 2024 - Present


LinkedIn

Caloocan City, Philippines

E D U C A T I O N
Bachelor in Applied Statistics Polytechnic University of the Philippines, Sta. Mesa, Manila
2008 - 2013

S K I L L S
Data Analysis
Data Governance
& 
Create metadata definitions and validation rules to support data profiling and governance processes.
& Build and maintain data quality metrics measuring accuracy, completeness, and consistency across datasets.
& Develop and optimize complex SQL queries using joins, conditional logic, and regular expressions.
& Perform data validation and data quality checks using AWS Athena SQL.
& Investigate and resolve data discrepancies based on client feedback and validation findings.
& Validate business logic in SQL scripts and reporting use cases to ensure accurate metrics and high-quality data outputs.
& Collaborate with stakeholders to gather requirements and refine validation logic.
& Document data rules, assumptions, and validation processes.
& Validate dashboard outputs, review DAX calculations, and support Power BI report development.

Data Profiling

Data Engineer I
IQVIA

January 2022 - August 2024

Data Visualization Data Dashboarding SQL
Power BI Looker
MicroStrategy GitLab
JIRA


A W A R D S &

Created interactive dashboards and perform backend and frontend programming in order to meet clients expectation.
Managed timely completion and delivery of client reports and dashboards. Collaborated with cross-functional teams to identify and resolved data quality issues, resulting in improved accuracy and reliability of data.
Developed data models and schemas to support business intelligence and analytics needs.
Ensured data quality and consistency through the implementation of data validation checks.
Provided technical support and training on BI tools such as Looker to users and developers
Maintained and monitored data transformation processes (ETL) using DBT,
ensuring timely and accurate data availability for business intelligence reports.

C E R T I F I C A T I O N S
& Global Impact Award - utilized

Data Integrity Specialist
IQVIA


August 2015 - December 2021

MicroStrategy tool to develop practical dashboards for efficient checks on product and customer data for South Africa.
& Global Impact Award - given an award for the dedication on the Disease
Analyser Data Dictionary project.
& 
Designed and implemented a MicroStrategy dashboard for monthly report,
enabling the identification of data anomalies before client report distribution.
& Investigated and resolved client queries submitted by Local office.
& Maintained and modified SQL queries for South Africa datasets.
& Identified and implemented data corrections to ensure accuracy and integrity in reports and analyses.

& Training and Certification – Mastering LookML: Looker’s Modeling Language

Data Analyst
Dev-Touch Information System,Inc.

May 2013 - April 2015

(Udemy).
& Agile Workshop – Completed agile workshop (Scrum and Kanban).
& 
Collected, encoded, and validated clinical data transferred from Northridge Clinic to Manila, ensuring accuracy and data integrity.
& Performed quality checks to confirm the reliability of clinical data before presenting it to stakeholders.



